---
layout: post
title: My site, relaunched
---

I registered this domain somewhere in 2005. I remember how excited I was to have my own piece of the internet, a corner staked out where I could do anything and say anything I wanted.

In the beginning, I blogged with a fair amount of regularity about the subjects that interested me -- technology, politics, philosophy. Having a platform to write openly allowed me to explore my own individual feelings. It allowed me an opportunity to -- sometimes clumsily -- reason out my beliefs on an open stage, which caused me both to former stronger opinions and learn how to defend them. It also forced me to hone my writing, to become better at clearly communicating my ideas, which is an incredibly important asset.

For a young kid, barely in high school, this wasn't exactly easy. This kind of vulnerability was far outside of my comfort zone, but important to my personal development.

It also provided a great platform for me to grow on as a programmer. Having a blog (at that time built on Wordpress) allowed me to explore HTML, CSS, JS and PHP -- all fairly new concepts to me. The continual hacking, the autodidactical learning, proved important for my professional career. It got me my first job, which got me my second, which lead to [my final one][na].

Now, several iterations later, I'm finally [blogging like a hacker][tpw]. Looking at that young kid, muddling around Wordpress without a clue how to use CSS to float one column next to the other, it's an amazing transition to today, when I'm blogging using [Jekyll][j], an amazing Ruby-based static blogging engine. A blog hosted on S3 and presented by Cloudfront -- technology I would've scratched my head at years ago, technology I now use every day. (I plan on doing a write-up on my setup sometime soon.)

It's been a great ride so far. Through seven years and many changes, bugs and more changes, this site has been important in shaping who I am today, and I'm very much looking forward to how it, and I, evolve in the future.

[na]: http://newaperio.com
[tpw]: http://tom.preston-werner.com/2008/11/17/blogging-like-a-hacker.html
[j]: http://jekyllrb.com